Welcome to Bay View Academy's onboarding module
on restorative practices.
In this segment, we will introduce you to
the basics of restorative practices, a vital
part of our school's culture.
So, what are restorative practices?
Well, imagine this: a student is playing with
a ball at recess, they kick it, and it breaks
a classroom window.
In a traditional setting, the student might
be punished, perhaps even suspended.
But does this approach truly solve the underlying
problem?
Enter restorative practices.
Rather than focusing on punishment, restorative
practices emphasis understanding and healing.
It's about bringing together those affected
by an action to discuss its impact, understand
its root causes and collaboratively find a
way forward.
The goal?
To repair relationships, rebuild trust and
foster a sense of community.
At BVA, restorative practices are anchored
in three foundational principles.
First, there's accountability, which emphasizes
owning up to our actions and understanding
their repercussions on others.
Next, the approach is orientated around the
person harmed, ensuring the needs of those
who have been affected by any harm are addressed,
lastly the significance of community involvement
is championed.
Promoting a collective responsiblity for resolving
conflicts.
Our restorative practices are guided by values
like empathy, respect, fairness and inclusion.
These values shape our interactions and responses.
At BVA we embrace restorative practices in
the context of our diverse community.
It's about speaking your truth, listening
to others and fostering trust, safety and
belonging.
So, in essence, traditional punitive practices
focus on punsihment for wrong doing whereas
restorative practices emphasizer understanding,
healing and rebuilding relationships after
harm has occurred.
As we explore restorative practices further
it's important to remember that while they
have gained popularity and momentum in modern
times, especially in education, their roots
run deep indigenous communities.
Join us in this first module to delve into
the rich indigenous history.